Hey everyone!
I've put together a detailed video on web UI automation using Playwright with JavaScript.
I'll walk you through a framework I designed specifically for the Orange HRM demo website.
I've created two test cases:
one that passes successfully and one that's intentionally designed to fail.
To make all of this happen, I've built out several functions:
for logging in, logging out, creating a user, verifying user creation
deleting a user, and even attempting to delete that super admin.
I have created different methods within the functions and passed centralized locators so that I can use them across various methods and functions.
The advantage of this approach is that I won’t have to modify locators repeatedly if they change in the future.
Since the locators are centralized, I will only need to update them in one place,
and those changes will automatically reflect everywhere the locators are used.
I have used parameters in the methods and called arguments from a common data repository.
The advantage of using a common data repository is that if data needs to be updated in the future
especially when the same data is used in multiple places
changing it in one central location will automatically reflect everywhere.
Another benefit of having a data repository is that the same data can be used across different environments as needed.
Running both test cases sequentially will allow you to observe their execution flow and validate the results effectively.
Playwright's capability to run across multiple browsers simultaneously is definitely a major advantage for cross-browser testing.
But keeping things simple with Chrome for now one step at a time!
First test case is now running—let’s see how it executes
Second test case is now running.
Since this one is designed to fail intentionally,
it'll be interesting to see how the reporting captures the exact failure point.
My first test case passed successfully, which means framework is functioning as expected.
Let's generate the Allure report and analyze the results.
We’ve successfully executed both test cases
one passed while the other failed as expected.
Let’s dive into the detailed view of your Allure report.
Let's start by reviewing the steps of the passed test case.
Here’s what to focus on: Step-by-Step Execution, Assertions and Validations,
Screenshots & Logs and Execution Time & Performance.
By intentionally triggering a failure,
we can thoroughly test how our framework captures errors and integrates screenshot reporting.
Since we've opted for the "On Failure" setting,
the screenshot will be generated only when the test case fails
making debugging more efficient.
Viewing execution status in graph format provides a clear visual representation of test case results,
making analysis more intuitive.
So friends, this was my execution approach along with the report.
Thanks for watching!